Hello this is curial from Fricks boat dot com and this is our fifth tutorial in the series of em kill
for tutorials for complete beginners.
Last time we talked about logical expressions and boolean variables and that information is going to
be very handy to us today because we're going to be talking about the While loop.
So what is the while loop and what is it consistent.
Well loop consists of four three parts.
So it's the word while then followed by normal brackets within which is a logical expression which we'll
call ABC or now.
And then there are curly brackets within which is the actual body of the While loop.
The way this structure works is when the program moving from the top of the code gets to this line it
will check if this expression is actually true.
So check if the expression is true then the program will execute the code which is located in the curly
brackets and after executing the body of the while loop the program will move back to the start of the
while loop and it will once again check if this expression is true.
If it is true then the program will execute the body one more time after which it will go back to the
start of the loop and it will check the expression again.
And so every time the expression is true the body of the loop will be executed.
This will continue happening until the expression is found to be false as soon as the expression is
false.
The program will ignore the body of the while loop and will move on to exit.
Getting any code that follows.
So that's basically how the world works.
Let's look at a simple example.
We're going to we're going to type in and alert.
We're going to say hello and here we're going to just put in a false statement.
And above just for controlling purposes we'll put in another alert and say start all
of these empty lines.
All right.
So we can compile that go to the mayor for platform and we'll see what we get tore far by as you can
see we only get one message which says start up script we do not see a message saying hello.
And why is that.
Well that's simple.
It's because after executing this alert program gets to the While loop checks the expression expression
is false.
So it doesn't execute the body completely ignores it and moves on to the rest of the program which in
our case it's nothing.
And it just basically completes the script.
So what what else we can do is we can replace a false with true.
And in this case because this expression will always be true the program will get stuck.
Executing the body of the loop on and on
forever basically and we'll get what is called an infinite loop.
That means that program will get stuck here and that will cause meto try to hang on.
So we don't want that.
And that's why we're not going to compile an execute description.
But what we will do is we'll look at a more practical option.
It's just a variable called Collender.
I will set it to one initially and then here we'll check if counter is less than three.
And inside the lurk and say hello.
We'll just print out the value of color.
And after that we will have a statement that increases color by 1.
So this statement basically takes the old value of color adds one and assigns that to common meaning
and base a simple increment of counter.
So what will happen in this version of the program is of course we'll get a message saying start script
then the program will create a variable called Color and assign the value of 1 to that variable.
Then the probe will get here will check if one is less than three That's true.
It will print out one then said color equal to one plus one sales increment about the value of quarter
and can all be equal to 2.
Then after executing the body of the while loop the trigger will go back to the start of the while loop
it will check if two this time is less than three.
That's true.
I will print out two and then it will increase color by one more making it three.
We'll go back to the start of the while loop it will check if three is less than three.
That is false and therefore the program will ignore the body of the loop and we'll move on to executing
any code that follows which is going to add some control code here as well.
We'll say Luke has finished and let's compiled that.
No mistakes errors and that's what we get in trade for so start off script 1.
So that's the first iteration of the loop to second iteration of the loop and then that's it.
Loop has finished so soon as the variable becomes 3.
The body of the look at second and program moves on to executing this last line.
So that brings us to the end of this tutorial.
I hope you found
this information useful and hopefully you can work a little bit with this wild loop and make some versions
of your own more information and tutorials are available on for export dot com.
And I hope you will join me again for the next tutorial.
And until then happy coding.